CS457 
Fall 2019
P2 - Bagging Problem 
Hailee Kiesecker
Taylor Roberts 

The design of our new grocery bagging problem was closely derived to how we set up our previous 
submitted program. Keeping our algorithms within the baggins class allowed us to remain organized
while we worked through issues. The design of the most remaining values heuristic was taken at a 
basic level. The implementation of  two PriorityQueues<>() each one having its own separate comparisons. 
These compare methods were created in the object class to which the PriorityQueue was made of. This 
being the items and sacks java classes. With Implementing the most remaining values heuristic we only
focused on one of the two priority queues I called in findMRV. findMRV organizes the items into an 
order according to their size as well as how many bags they can be placed into. This number is stored 
as an integer variable attached to each item object that allows for us to manipulate it on a single 
call to the item itself. After each item is given an MRV(most remaining value) integer value it is
then placed one at a time into the priority queue where it is compared and placed according to value.
These are all the steps taken in implementing the most remaining value heuristic for our algorithm.


Next we focus on the secondary PriorityQueue which stores objects of type sack. This queue’s comparator
is within the sack class and is manipulating the placement of sacks based on their least constraining values.
These least constraining values(LCV) are stored in the individual sack object itself just like the items
MRV value. The LCV value is calculated by taking in the sacks current open space and adding that to a 
secondary integer which starts at 0 and gets added to whenever an object CAN be placed into the sack for
every unpacked object and every bag. The comparator then orders this combined number from least to greatest. 


Polling the top from each queue we stored the MRV item object and LCV sack object. Then we tested to see 
if the item would fit within the specified sack. If it did then we will place the item into our cart and 
copy all the contents of our cart into a new Cart which we would then clear out its priorityqueue values 
and push the cart itself into the stack. It is very important to set the integer values containing the 
MRV/LCV integer value over each time. Keeping it the same would not be a reflection of the current way it
would interact with the environment. If the item object would not fit into the current sack that sack has
failed and its lcv value is increased by one. This shows that while it is the least constraining bag it 
does not work with the most constraining item so we should cycle to the next bag and redo the can add method.
In this else statement we also do NOT clear out our priority queue or its values keeping it the same allows 
the environment to be exactly the same besides changing the value of one sack by one. This is because the 
constraint of that bag has increased. This allows us to just go into the next best LCV sack and check if 
the MRC item can be placed inside of it.


The overall experience with creating a search algorithm that implements both most remaining values and 
least constraining value heuristic was not as smooth as initially thought. A lot of overthinking occured
in what is needed to make the heuristics work correctly. An issue that occurred that ended up being how 
a major issue was fixed was figuring out where to put the actual creation of the priority queues. Creating
them each time we cycled through an item was a waste of time and it was making it so that regardless of if
the item could go into the bag or not the priority queues would be reset. After those were moved to the 
appropriate place and a lot of debugging it occurred to us that the actual carts are running into the same
issue over and over again, which was that they could not place an item into a bag and their heuristic numbers
were never taking that into account, so the same mistakes kept happening over and over always causing a 
failure in the end. Not wanting to mess with how our objects were being placed we decided it would be best
if the item could not be placed within a specified sack that the LCV would be modified to reflect that the 
bag has failed.

Our testing for our method implementing MRV and LCV is similar to how we tested the previous programming grocery
bagging problem. We randomly generated a bunch of grocery bagging problems and placed it in the grocery bagging
answer checker to make sure that it was indeed a solution. The downside of this implementation was that you 
couldn't really tell if you were always maintaining MRV and LCV heuristic with larger problem sets. 

Implementation of the arc consistency made it so our heuristic method could reference the MRV values of all of the 
unpacked items in our current cart. It then compares each mrv value to see which is larger between it and its neighboring
item. The larger MRV item is then assigned to the smaller one. this allowes them to be paired witheachother later because
they will then be next to eachother in the priority queue. At least that was the initial idea of it. Upon further inspection
We noticed that this Arc consisitency will never go into full effect because each time an item is placed its MRV is reset
making our change to be with its partner no longer there. 



Design/Implementation/Testing Local:
